I understood this passage a little differently. Fiske implies that arcades are especially alluring for subordinate groups that are expected to have control and influence but don't have any. The "masculine subordinate in a white, patriarchal, capitalist society" is the male minority: They are expected to have influence by virtue of being male, but are denied this influence by a mix of social and economic factors. Fiske himself says that arcades have "a larger proportion of nonwhites... than... many other places of entertainment." Arcades let the disempowered very literally take control by using a joystick and by inverting the worker-boss relationship to one of denying profit.

The current ethnic and gender makeup of gaming populations obviously has more to it than this. From personal experience, I know that there is absolutely harrasment against women in competitive games, which discourages women from getting involved with these types of games. I think that the current general ethnic makeup of e-sports teams that you point out have more to do with which groups of people have the privledge of spending a lot of time mastering and playing games as well as the aforementioned harrasment against women, than the general demographics of who plays games. 


During leisurely activities, people, at a minimum, have the illusion of choice in what meanings they produce from their activities. There are surely many situations in which people do have an uninterrupted freedom to choose their leisure activities and produce meanings from their experience, but, as Fiske mentions, the dominant want to hijack these activities so that they may influence people to produce meanings that serve their agenda. 

Short form video platforms, for example, take control of individuals through their addictive algorithms. These algorithms exert control by tempting people to reach for their phones whenever there is time for leisure. Once you're on the platform, you are shown content that likely re-inforces your current ideologies, comments that motivate what meanings you make from the content, and material trends that push you to a storefront. These addictive platforms encourage informational and physical consumerism, which is just what the dominant capitalist class desires.
